book/src/reference/references.md, before:

# Appendix: References

<div class="biblio">

1. <span class="bibkey" id="AbHuVi94">AbHuVi94</span>Abiteboul, S., Hull, R., & Vianu, V. _Foundations of Databases: The Logical Level_. (Pearson, 1995). [webdam.inria.fr/Alice/](http://webdam.inria.fr/Alice/).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Balaz12">Balaz12</span>Balazinska, M. _CSE 344: Introduction to Data Management. Lecture 10: Datalog_. (University of Washington, 2012). Retrieved January 24, 2022, from [courses.cs.washington.edu](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse344/12au/lectures/lecture10-datalog.pdf).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="CeGoTa90">CeGoTa90</span>Ceri, S., Gottlob, G., & Tanca, L. _Logic Programming and Databases_. (Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1990). [DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-83952-8](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-83952-8).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="ChVa97">ChVa97</span>Chaudhuri, S., and Vardi, M. Y. (1997). On the Equivalence of Recursive and Nonrecursive Datalog Programs. _Journal of Computer and System Sciences_, _54_(1), 61–78. [DOI: 10.1006/JCSS.1997.1452](https://doi.org/10.1006/JCSS.1997.1452).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Colomb">Colomb98</span>Colomb, R. M. _Deductive Databases and their Applications_. (Taylor & Francis, 1998).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="GreMol15">GreMol15</span>Greco, S. & Molinaro, C. _Datalog and Logic Databases_. (Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2015).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Mill1851">Mill1851</span>Mill, J. S. _A System of Logic, Ratiocinative and Inductive, Being a Connected View of the Principles of Evidence, and the Methods of Scientific Investigation_. (John W. Parker, 1851).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="QConv">QConv</span>Grammatical Framework. (March 1, 2018). _Query-converter -- SQL to Relational Algebra_. Retrieved January 24, 2022, from [grammaticalframework.org](http://www.grammaticalframework.org/qconv/qconv-a.html).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Shep88">Shep88</span>Shepherdson, John C. _Negation in Logic Programming_ in Foundations of Deductive Databases and Logic Programming. (1988).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="WikiDatalog">WikiDatalog</span>Datalog. (January 9, 2022). In _Wikipedia_. Retrieved January 24, 2022, from  [en.wikipedia.org/Datalog](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Datalog&oldid=1064721744). 
1. <span class="bibkey" id="WikiRelalg">WikiRelalg</span>Relational algebra. (December 1, 2021). In _Wikipedia_. Retrieved January 24, 2022, from [en.wikipedia.org/Relational_algebra](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Relational_algebra&oldid=1058055410). 

</div>

Commit message:

Fix book formatting
A number of specific changes to clean-up formatting:

* replace '"' with #x22 to fix string detection in ebnf files
* added back the " ;" suffix to each ebnf to fix highlighting.js
  output
* move the file `relational.md` from the datalog chapter to a separate
  appendix
* added new reference for model theory
* minor additions to the introduction and datalog chapters

Signed-off-by: Simon Johnston <johnstonskj@gmail.com>

book/src/reference/references.md, after:

# Appendix: References

<div class="biblio">

1. <span class="bibkey" id="AbHuVi94">AbHuVi94</span>Abiteboul, S., Hull, R., & Vianu, V. _Foundations of Databases: The Logical Level_. (Pearson, 1995). [webdam.inria.fr/Alice/](http://webdam.inria.fr/Alice/).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Balaz12">Balaz12</span>Balazinska, M. _CSE 344: Introduction to Data Management. Lecture 10: Datalog_. (University of Washington, 2012). Retrieved January 24, 2022, from [courses.cs.washington.edu](https://courses.cs.washington.edu/courses/cse344/12au/lectures/lecture10-datalog.pdf).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="CeGoTa90">CeGoTa90</span>Ceri, S., Gottlob, G., & Tanca, L. _Logic Programming and Databases_. (Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 1990). [DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-83952-8](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-83952-8).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="ChVa97">ChVa97</span>Chaudhuri, S., and Vardi, M. Y. (1997). On the Equivalence of Recursive and Nonrecursive Datalog Programs. _Journal of Computer and System Sciences_, _54_(1), 61–78. [DOI: 10.1006/JCSS.1997.1452](https://doi.org/10.1006/JCSS.1997.1452).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Colomb">Colomb98</span>Colomb, R. M. _Deductive Databases and their Applications_. (Taylor & Francis, 1998).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="GreMol15">GreMol15</span>Greco, S. & Molinaro, C. _Datalog and Logic Databases_. (Morgan & Claypool Publishers, 2015).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Mill1851">Mill1851</span>Mill, J. S. _A System of Logic, Ratiocinative and Inductive, Being a Connected View of the Principles of Evidence, and the Methods of Scientific Investigation_. (John W. Parker, 1851).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="QConv">QConv</span>Grammatical Framework. (March 1, 2018). _Query-converter -- SQL to Relational Algebra_. Retrieved January 24, 2022, from [grammaticalframework.org](http://www.grammaticalframework.org/qconv/qconv-a.html).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Shep88">Shep88</span>Shepherdson, John C. _Negation in Logic Programming_ in Foundations of Deductive Databases and Logic Programming. (1988).
1. <span class="bibkey" id="WikiDatalog">WikiDatalog</span>Datalog. (January 9, 2022). In _Wikipedia_. Retrieved January 24, 2022, from  [en.wikipedia.org/Datalog](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Datalog&oldid=1064721744). 
1. <span class="bibkey" id="WikiRelalg">WikiRelalg</span>Relational algebra. (December 1, 2021). In _Wikipedia_. Retrieved January 24, 2022, from [en.wikipedia.org/Relational_algebra](https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Relational_algebra&oldid=1058055410). 
1. <span class="bibkey" id="Wilfrid22">Wilfrid22</span>Hodges, W. _Model Theory_. in The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (ed. Zalta, E. N.) (2022). [plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2022/entries/model-theory/](https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2022/entries/model-theory/)
</div>
